Aggregate Polymorphism. (#108)
AxonIQ/reference-guide: implementing-domain-logic/command-handling/aggregate-polymorphism.md

# Aggregate Polymorphism

In certain cases it is beneficial to have a polymorphic hierarchy in aggregate structure. Subtypes in polymorphic 
aggregate hierarchy inherit `@CommandHandler`s, `@EventSourcingHandler`s and `@CommandHandlerInterceptor`s from the 
super aggregates. Based on `@AggregateIdentifier` the correct aggregate type is loaded and command is executed on it. 
Let's take a look at the following example:

```java

> public class Parent {}

Reviewer: Alongside this theoretical example, would it be possible to provide a variant on the `GiftCard` which also shows some of the method handlers? The `GiftCard` application is used as the sample project in the majority of the guide, hence such a sample would be beneficial for continuity when reading the guide.

Author: Yeah I know, I'll try to think of polymorphic cases in `GiftCard` example.

Reviewer: Muchos gracias señor

public class AggregateA extends Parent {}

public class AggregateB extends AggregateA {}

public class AggregateC extends AggregateA {}

public class AggregateD extends AggregateB {}
```

We can define this structure as Polymorphic Aggregate of type `AggregateA` and subtypes of `AggregateB`, `AggregateC`, 

> and `AggregateD`. If there handlers present on `Parent` class, those will be present on all aggregates as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `AggregateD`. If are there handlers present on `Parent` class, those will be present on all aggregates as well. 
```

Author: `If there are` :P

Reviewer: Darn, correct xD

While modeling a polymorphic aggregate hierarchy it is important to keep these constraints in mind:
- It is not allowed to have a constructor annotated with `@CommandHandler` on abstract aggregate. The rationale for this 

> is that such aggregate cannot ever be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is that an abstract aggregate can never be created.
```

- Having creational command handlers of the same command name on different aggregates in the same hierarchy is forbidden 

> as well since Axon cannot know which one to invoke. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
too, since Axon cannot derive which one to invoke. 
```

> - In polymorphic aggregate hierarchy it is allowed to have only one `@AggregateIdentifier` and one `@AggregateVersion` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In a polymorphic aggregate hierarchy it is not allowed to have multiple `@AggregateIdentifier` and `@AggregateVersion` annotated fields.
```

field.

## Registering aggregate subtypes

> Polymorphic aggregate hierarchy can be registered via `AggregateConfigurer` by invoking `registerSubtype`. Do note that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A polymorphic aggregate hierarchy can be registered via the `AggregateConfigurer` by invoking `AggregateConfigurer#registerSubtype(Class)`. Do note that 
```

> children of top aggregate that are not registered as a subtype will automatically be registered as a subtype. In the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
children of the parent aggregate that are not registered as a sub-type will __automatically__ be registered as a sub-type. In the 
```

following example `AggregateB` is transitively registered as a subtype of `AggregateA`. However, if there is an 
`AggregateE extends AggregateD` defined, it will not be picked up (unless explicitly registered as a subtype).

```java
AggregateConfigurer<AggregateA> configurer = AggregateConfigurer.defaultConfiguration(AggregateA.class);
configurer.registerSubtype(AggregateC.class);
configurer.registerSubtype(AggregateD.class);
```

> > If you are using Spring, polymorphic hierarchy will be automatically detected based on `@Aggregate` annotations and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Polymorphic Aggregates in Spring**
> 
> If you are using Spring, polymorphic hierarchy will be automatically detected based on `@Aggregate` annotations and 
```

Reviewer: The above shared format is how the majority of "notes" is currently described in the reference guide.
